#labels Featured

= Introduction =

Globalite is meant to be a breed of the best internationalization/localization plugins available for Rails. 

Globalite provides you with a 3-in-1 solution: 

  * Easy UI localization. 
  * Rails localization. (Localization of the core functions from rails)
  * Simple yet powerful solution for user content availability in multiple languages.

On top of that:
yml files are used for most of the localization, which makes Globalite a light and fast solution.
The Locale is set on the user's session making Globalite a perfect solution for multilingual support.
The developer can pass dynamic values to be used in the localization.


= installation =

	{{{script/plugin install http://globalite.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/}}}
rename the vendor/plugins/trunk => vendor/plugins/globalite
or from your vendor/plugins folder:
	{{{svn checkout http://globalite.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ globalite}}}




= UI Localization =


Create a lang folder at the root of your project. Add your localization files in the lang/ui folder if you want to localize your interface. 

Declare the current locale or language > 
	{{{Globalite.current_language :fr}}}
Localize a key > 
	{{{:localization_key.l }}}
or 
	{{{:localization_key.localize}}}

Easy, isn't?

Advanced users can also do more:

You can also pass an optional localization string only used if the localization is missing
	{{{:missing_localization_key.l("text used if the key is not localized yet")}}}

You can also pass values to the localization, and the translator can do whatever he wants with them:	
	{{{:welcome_user.l_with_args({:user => @user.name}) would render "Welcome Matt!"}}}
Note that variables can be used in any order the translator wants	
	




= Rails Localization =


Localize a time object by using a predefined format (defined in the date_helper_time_formats variable that you can find  in globalite/lang/rails/[lang].yml)

        {{{Globalite.current_language = :fr}}}
	{{{Time.now.l(:long) }}} 

Localize a date object by using a predefined format (defined in the date_helper_date_formats variable that you can find  in globalite/lang/rails/[lang].yml)
	
	{{{Date.today.l}}}

In your views, create a select box with a list of all countries(listed in the locale language):
	{{{country_options_for_select	}}}

In your views, create a select box with a list of all the months(listed in the locale language) with the current month selected:
	{{{select_month(Time.now)}}}
	
In your views, create a set of html select-tags (one for year, month, day, hour, and minute):
	{{{select_datetime}}}
	
In your views, create a set of html select-tags (one for year, month, and day):
	{{{select_date}}}
	
Get a number returned in currency, for instance if the locale was set to 'fr' the returned value would be 123,00 € but if the locale was set to 'en-US' it would return $123.00
	{{{number_to_currency(123)}}}	

Get a distance of time in words localized.
	{{{distance_of_time_in_words(Time.mktime(2005, 6, 4, 15), Time.now)}}}

Active record errors are automatically rendered in the locale language


